[Music]
foreign
another year another version of iOS come
into an iPhone near you it seems like
usually these updates get smaller and
smaller and less and less crazy but it
feels like this year for whatever reason
Apple has packed a ton of stuff into iOS
17. this is going to be launching in
September when the new iPhone comes out
on everybody's iPhone but it's in beta
now and I've been using it and there's a
lot of stuff here I'm going to try to
pack it into a top five but it was kind
of hard I've been using this iOS 17 beta
for a few weeks now the public beta is
out so if you want to try it before the
new iPhone even comes out you can do
that but let's take a look at the five
most impressive new things that are
coming to the iPhone but as we go
through this I do want you to keep
something in the back of your head just
just keep this in mind a lot of times in
the past those features that we'd get
were really really big because they were
new capabilities
most if not all of these features depend
on having another iPhone in the mix
whether your friend has an iPhone or
your family has an iPhone you need two
iPhones for a lot of this stuff to work
just something to keep in the back of
your head all right so number five
airdrop airdrop is one of those things
it's one of those features that when it
works it feels like it's one of the best
things ever but sometimes it's glitchy
and it doesn't work and it seems
terrible so I hope some stability
improvements are also in the works here
but basically apple is expanding airdrop
to be more capable and easier to use the
big one is that if you meet another
person who also has an iPhone you can
walk up to them and bump your phones
together you literally hold your phones
up next to each other at a an inch or
two apart and it'll play this sweet
animation as the phones talk to each
other and transfer a contact poster with
your name and contact info to that other
person in a single touch it's called
name drops pretty cool couple things
about this one is it lets you actually
choose which info you want to share so
you you do that phone bump thing and it
goes oh you want to share something do
you want to share just your phone number
okay cool do you want to share your
email address and not your phone number
you can switch it over to that I want to
share a fake number sure program that in
two this will all come from the my card
at the top of contact settings that you
can customize with whatever photo you
want whatever fonts you want Etc and
everything you change will show up to
people that have you in their contacts
what's cooler though is you can actually
Now bump to share photos or videos or
content links or even start a share play
session basically it's making it easier
to find a certain iPhone on AirPlay by
getting it roughly within NFC distance
of another iPhone and then you can share
stuff and then another cool thing
typically airdrop is a Wi-Fi Direct
connection between two iPhones but if
you leave each other if you you walk
away down the street and you want to
continue this file transfer that hasn't
finished yet it will resume over
cellular so it'll start uploading to
Cellular and their phone will download
and you can just walk away and airdrop
should finish I don't know if you
remember an app from a while back called
bump
this was in like 2009 it was literally
just an app to bump phones together to
share contact information Google ended
up buying them but I do have a feeling
that if they still existed now this
would be a sort of a Sherlock situation
just another example of the remora fish
to Apple's shark if that reference
doesn't make any sense I'll leave a
video link below to the video that I did
comparing Apple to sharks it's a it
makes sense when you watch the video I
promise so anyway number four is a
feature called personal voice so this
one's an accessibility setting it's not
even something that they talked about on
stage this is something that is not
meant for most people to use but it's
pretty cool anyway so in settings then
accessibility you scroll down to the
speech section that's new here and
there's something called personal voice
and you'll see a button that says create
a personal voice basically what's going
to happen is your phone's gonna ask you
to take it to a quiet place and then
it's going to display a number of
phrases on the screen and it'll ask you
to say those phrases into the microphone
it's 100 150 phrases they're pretty
random they'll be like Sally sold
seashells in 1979 and the president of
Morocco is very tall and you just go
through the list and you say a bunch of
these phrases and when it's done it
compiles all of your voice and will
stitch together a new synthesized voice
that can say whatever you want to make
it say it does all of this locally on
device so it has no servers involved it
doesn't send your voice recordings
everywhere it does all the compilation
overnight and at the end of this you
basically get a new voice on your phone
you can go to accessibility settings and
then enable live speech so that on the
triple tap of a power button it brings
up a text block and you can type
whatever you whatever you want to make
the voice say and then just hit send hey
quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog
all right let's try another one here
a little more substance 30 frames per
second is the correct frame rate and
anyone who says otherwise is probably
lying to you
it kind of sounds like me and it's
decently good I wouldn't I wouldn't pass
it off as human if I like played this
recording to you you wouldn't think it's
a person but it kind of sounds like I'm
talking on the phone to someone and it
kind of has a poor connection you know
but this isn't some mainstream feature
like I said it's an accessibility
setting so a reason this is designed for
people who may know that they are at
risk of losing their voice at some point
or maybe their vocal cords fatigue after
a long time there are conditions like
that MTD is a common one and so they can
sort of go through this process and
create a voice on their phone so that
they can continue to interact with the
world without using some generic Siri
voice and it actually kind of still
sounds like them all right let's move on
to the next bullet point number three
the little things the little things
Apple Apple's always tweaking and adding
little features here and there to their
stock apps especially there's a bunch of
those this time around and in total you
could say they add up to a welcome
refinement uh you probably heard about
the new keyboard which looks the same
but should be way Smarter with
Transformer based autocorrect and
improved it's much faster dictation
actually oh and also that thing where
you're typing a word and then you spell
it a little bit different and then you
hit space and it corrects you and then
you hit backspace and type it the way
you want again and hit space and it
corrects you again and it doesn't seem
to learn
they fixed that also widgets are
thankfully interactive now the whole
point of a widget I always thought was
to be able to view and interact with
information without jumping into the app
which is trying to suck you in I'm
surprised it took this long but I am
happy to finally see that here there's
also now a bunch of new messages
features including one called check-in
this is good for I think either kids or
maybe significant others or friends you
know the dance you do where someone's
gone somewhere and you're like all right
text me when you get there and then you
wait for them to text you back or you
can share location or you just have them
text you when they arrive now there's
just a feature built in you just hit the
plus button you go to check in whoever
is going to be checked in on can decide
who to share their location with how
much data they want to share and then
there's this nice little tracker that
updates you and lets them know when
they've arrived where they're supposed
to and there's a bunch of other little
stuff like that sort of sprinkled around
the OS no doubt you've noticed still a
lot of these depend on also having a
friend with an iPhone that's how most of
this works but you know if you do have
that ecosystem in your life then yeah
there's a bunch of good stuff that adds
up to a good welcome Improvement good
little stuff so all right number two is
called standby mode so when I first saw
this feature I thought it was really
interesting but now I've thought about
this a lot the more I think about it I
have this so high on the list because I
think genuinely this is better than a
home pod for most people who already
have an iPhone basically it's a smart
home display so anytime your iPhone is
both charging and horizontal it triggers
the standby mode which is basically a
clock and then whatever useful Widgets
or photos you want to have in the
background it really reminds me of the
Apple watch it kind of has a bunch of
these preset layouts and then you can
literally swipe between these three
faces to find the one you like and then
swipe vertically to go through the
different styles so a lot of these yeah
will look just like an Apple Watch face
but yeah to be honest very useful so
that's already pretty convenient you can
kind of just have it display information
ambiently to you whether it's on a
nightstand or anger kitchen whatever but
then on top of that what makes it much
more home pod like is the fact that Siri
is better in two ways first of all it's
conversational so you don't have to keep
hitting the button over and over again
to keep asking it questions or
follow-ups you can just keep talking and
it keeps listening which is great the
other has been doing that forever and
then the other is you don't have to say
hey
her name you can just say Siri
what's the weather in Manchester on
Saturday
hover around 67 degrees with overnight
lows around 57.
what about Sunday
thank you
and then it sort of stops listening but
the idea is it's just going to keep
listening and talking to you and that's
better than before also that weather is
not great for golf but I don't know
we'll make it work either way big
improvements to Siri there that's what
makes it feel kind of like a you know a
smart home display now if only they
could make Siri actually good at other
things so then number one the top new
feature in iOS 17 I think we figured our
phones are still phones sometimes but
it's the phone app actually I'm
combining combining the phone app and
FaceTime but generally there's a lot of
nice features that sort of just make it
easy to clean up and have a better phone
experience first of all are the contact
posters like I mentioned earlier you set
up your own contact poster and then
everyone else who has you in their
contacts gets that updated in their
phone at least if if they have an iPhone
but then yeah whenever you call someone
that's what they see and this sort of
automatically cleans up everyone's
contacts with a nice photo I know for
for one I basically have no photos for
anyone in my contacts list outside of my
family so this is a nice effortless
Improvement for that and then another
fun piece is if someone calls you and
you don't pick up and it starts going to
voicemail you will actually get a live
transcription of the voicemail as
they're leaving it and if you want to
interrupt and pick it up at any time you
still can some of you are too young to
know that that's actually a throwback to
physical answering machines that were in
people's houses where you could actually
hear someone leaving you a voicemail and
then pick up the phone and interrupt it
and actually talk to them just I'm old
now so I get to say stuff like that but
also FaceTime gets voicemail too which
you might be thinking wait it's FaceTime
it's a video so what is a FaceTime
voicemail and it's literally just a
video message so like if you're about to
FaceTime someone and show them something
but then they don't pick up you'll just
you know record your video and then send
them the voicemail and then it shows up
inside the FaceTime inbox which is cool
but there you go that is it that's that
is the iOS 17 biggest stuff honestly I
think this is one of the biggest best
updates to iOS in a long time and
somehow there's still a bunch of little
stuff I didn't even mention from camera
effects to you know stickers all over
iMessage and stuff to Safari getting
profiles now there's a lot of stuff but
again now that we've gone through all of
it don't forget about how many of these
things are intentionally just for people
with another iPhone in their life
whether it's a friend with an iPhone or
a family member with an iPhone or you
just met someone with an iPhone from
name drop to share play to all the
iMessage features the contact cards the
FaceTime features that's the ecosystem
at work that's them going hey this is a
cool new feature but it'll only work if
your friend also has an iPhone so maybe
you pressure them into getting an iPhone
too either way that's it feel free to
share this video with others who will
probably have this software update on
their phone sometime soon and until the
next one
catch you guys later
peace
[Music]